README.md, before:

# 🌱 AgroSmart - Smart Agriculture Management System

A comprehensive full-stack smart agriculture platform that empowers farmers and agri-businesses with real-time data, analytics, and automation. Built with modern technologies to revolutionize farming through data-driven insights and intelligent farm management.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)
![.NET](https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET-8.0-purple.svg)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-19.1.0-blue.svg)
![SQL Server](https://img.shields.io/badge/SQL%20Server-Database-red.svg)

## 🌐 Live Demo

Check out AgroSmart in action:

- **Backend API**: [https://agrosmart-backend-7xdp.onrender.com/](https://agrosmart-backend-7xdp.onrender.com/)  
- **Frontend (Custom Domain)**: [https://agrosmart.me/](https://agrosmart.me/)  
- **Frontend (Netlify Preview)**: [https://ecoagrosmart.netlify.app/](https://ecoagrosmart.netlify.app/)  

## 🚀 Features

### 🏠 **Smart Dashboard**
- **Admin Dashboard** - Complete farm management system for administrators
- **User Dashboard** - Personal farm management for individual farmers
- **Real-time Analytics** - Live data visualization and insights
- **Responsive Design** - Works seamlessly on desktop, tablet, and mobile

### 🚜 **Farm Management**
- **Multi-Farm Operations** - Create, manage, and monitor multiple farms
- **Field Management** - Organize fields within farms with detailed tracking
- **Crop Planning** - Plan and track crop rotations and growing cycles
- **Resource Optimization** - Intelligent resource usage recommendations

### 📊 **IoT & Sensor Integration**
- **Real-time Sensor Data** - Collect soil moisture, temperature, humidity data
- **Automated Monitoring** - Continuous monitoring of farm conditions
- **Smart Alerts** - Automated notifications for critical events
- **Historical Data Analysis** - Track trends and patterns over time

### 🌤️ **Weather Intelligence**
- **Real-time Weather Data** - Current weather conditions and forecasts
- **Weather-based Recommendations** - Smart farming suggestions based on weather
- **Climate Analytics** - Long-term climate data for better planning
- **Weather Alerts** - Early warning system for weather risks

### 💡 **AI-Powered Insights**
- **Smart Recommendations** - AI-driven farming suggestions
- **Yield Predictions** - Data-driven crop yield forecasting
- **Trend Analysis** - Historical data analysis and future predictions
- **Performance Analytics** - Farm productivity insights

### 🔔 **Advanced Features**
- **Interactive Calendar** - Visual scheduling with color-coded activities
- **Task Management** - Create and track farming tasks with progress indicators
- **Knowledge Badges** - Gamification system for learning achievements
- **Multi-channel Notifications** - Email, SMS, and in-app alerts

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

### **Backend**
- **ASP.NET Core 8** - High-performance web API
- **Entity Framework Core** - ORM for database operations
- **Microsoft SQL Server** - Robust database management
- **JWT Authentication** - Secure token-based authentication
- **RESTful APIs** - Clean API architecture

### **Frontend**
- **React 19.1** - Modern React with latest features
- **Vite 7.0** - Fast build tool and development server
- **Tailwind CSS** - Utility-first CSS framework
- **Framer Motion** - Beautiful animations and micro-interactions
- **React Router** - Client-side routing and navigation

### **UI & Visualization**
- **Lucide React** - Beautiful, customizable icons
- **React Big Calendar** - Interactive calendar component
- **Recharts** - Responsive chart library for data visualization
- **React Toastify** - Elegant notification system
- **SweetAlert2** - Beautiful alert dialogs

### **Communication & APIs**
- **Axios** - HTTP client for API communication
- **EmailJS** - Email service integration
- **Three.js** - 3D graphics and visualization
- **Moment.js** - Date and time manipulation

## 📁 Project Structure

```
AgroSmart/
├── AgroSmartBeackend/       # ASP.NET Core Web API
│   ├── Controllers/         # API Controllers
│   ├── Models/             # Data Models
│   ├── Services/           # Business Logic
│   ├── Data/               # Database Context
│   └── appsettings.json    # Configuration
│
├── AgroSmartFrontend/      # React + Vite Frontend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── Components/     # Reusable Components
│   │   ├── pages/          # Page Components
│   │   ├── services/       # API Services (21 services)
│   │   ├── contexts/       # React Contexts
│   │   ├── hooks/          # Custom Hooks
│   │   └── utils/          # Utility Functions
│   ├── docs/               # Frontend Documentation
│   └── package.json
│
├── Database/               # Database Scripts & Schema
├── Materials/              # Project Documentation & Resources
├── .github/                # GitHub Workflows & Templates
└── README.md
```

## 🚀 Getting Started

### **Prerequisites**
- [.NET 8 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) or later
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v18+ recommended)
- [Microsoft SQL Server](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server)
- Modern web browser

### **Installation**

#### 1. **Clone the Repository**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/mr-baraiya/AgroSmart.git
cd AgroSmart
```

#### 2. **Backend Setup (ASP.NET Core)**
```bash
# Navigate to backend directory
cd AgroSmartBeackend

# Configure database connection in appsettings.json
# Update connection string for your SQL Server

# Run database migrations
dotnet ef database update

# Install dependencies and run
dotnet restore
dotnet run
```

#### 3. **Frontend Setup (React + Vite)**
```bash
# Navigate to frontend directory
cd AgroSmartFrontend

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Configure environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Update VITE_API_BASE_URL=http://localhost:5000/api

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

#### 4. **Database Setup**
- Ensure SQL Server is installed and running
- Create a new database for AgroSmart
- Update connection strings in backend configuration
- Run migrations to create tables

### **Build for Production**

#### Backend
```bash
cd AgroSmartBeackend
dotnet publish -c Release
```

#### Frontend
```bash
cd AgroSmartFrontend
npm run build
npm run preview
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### **Backend Configuration**
```json
{
  "Logging": {
    "LogLevel": {
      "Default": "Information",
      "Microsoft.AspNetCore": "Warning"
    }
  },
  "AllowedHosts": "*",
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "myConnectionString": "YOUR_CONNECTION_STRING_HERE"
  },
  "Jwt": {
    "Key": "YOUR_JWT_KEY",
    "Issuer": "https://localhost:7059",
    "Audience": "*",
    "TokenExpiryMinutes": 60
  },
  "SmtpSettings": {
    "Host": "smtp.gmail.com",
    "Port": "587",
    "Username": "YOUR_EMAIL",
    "Password": "YOUR_PASSWORD",
    "FromEmail": "YOUR_EMAIL"
  }
}
```

### **Frontend Environment Variables**
```env
# Frontend environment variables (Vite)

# API base URL for your backend
VITE_API_BASE_URL=https://your-backend-url.com/api

# Base URL for images served by backend
VITE_IMAGE_BASE_URL=https://your-backend-url.com

# OpenWeatherMap API
VITE_WEATHER_API_KEY=YOUR_OPENWEATHERMAP_API_KEY
VITE_WEATHER_API_BASE_URL=https://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5

# EmailJS configuration
VITE_EMAILJS_USER_ID=YOUR_EMAILJS_USER_ID
VITE_EMAILJS_SERVICE_ID=YOUR_EMAILJS_SERVICE_ID
VITE_EMAILJS_TEMPLATE_ID=YOUR_EMAILJS_TEMPLATE_ID
```

## 📊 API Services

The application includes 21 comprehensive API services:

### **User Services (9)**
- User Farm Management
- User Field Management
- User Crop Management
- User Schedule Management
- User Sensor Management
- User Weather Service
- User Smart Insights
- User Sensor Readings
- User Field-wise Crops

### **Admin Services (10)**
- Admin User Management
- Admin Farm Management
- Admin Field Management
- Admin Crop Management
- Admin Schedule Management
- Admin Sensor Management
- Admin Weather Service
- Admin Smart Insights
- Admin Sensor Readings
- Admin Field-wise Crops

### **System Services (2)**
- Authentication Service
- Health Monitoring Service

## 🌟 Key Features in Detail

### **Dashboard Analytics**
- Real-time farm performance metrics
- Interactive charts and visualizations
- Weather integration and forecasts
- Sensor data monitoring
- Task and schedule management

### **Farm Management System**
- Multi-farm organization
- Field mapping and management
- Crop planning and rotation
- Resource allocation optimization
- Performance tracking and analytics

### **Smart Notifications**
- Weather alerts and warnings
- Sensor threshold notifications
- Task and schedule reminders
- System health alerts
- Custom notification preferences

### **Mobile Responsiveness**
- Fully responsive design
- Touch-friendly interface
- Offline capability
- Progressive Web App features

## 📚 Documentation

Comprehensive documentation is available:

- **[Frontend Documentation](AgroSmartFrontend/docs/)** - Complete frontend guide
- **[API Documentation](AgroSmartBeackend/docs/)** - Backend API reference
- **[Database Schema](Database/)** - Database structure and relationships
- **[Deployment Guide](Materials/)** - Production deployment instructions

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 👨‍💻 Author

**Mr. Baraiya** - [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/mr-baraiya)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Built with modern .NET and React technologies
- Designed for farmers and agricultural professionals
- Inspired by the need for smart, data-driven farming solutions
- Thanks to all contributors and the open-source community

## 📞 Support

For support and questions:
- Open an issue on [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/mr-baraiya/AgroSmart/issues)
- Contact: [mr-baraiya](https://github.com/mr-baraiya)

---

**AgroSmart** - Empowering agriculture through technology 🌱
*Smart farming for a sustainable future*

Commit message:

Add AGMARKNET API key configuration to README
Added instructions and environment variable for configuring the AGMARKNET API key for Mandi Prices. This helps users set up access to market price data via data.gov.in.

README.md, after:

# 🌱 AgroSmart - Smart Agriculture Management System

A comprehensive full-stack smart agriculture platform that empowers farmers and agri-businesses with real-time data, analytics, and automation. Built with modern technologies to revolutionize farming through data-driven insights and intelligent farm management.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)
![.NET](https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET-8.0-purple.svg)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-19.1.0-blue.svg)
![SQL Server](https://img.shields.io/badge/SQL%20Server-Database-red.svg)

## 🌐 Live Demo

Check out AgroSmart in action:

- **Backend API**: [https://agrosmart-backend-7xdp.onrender.com/](https://agrosmart-backend-7xdp.onrender.com/)  
- **Frontend (Custom Domain)**: [https://agrosmart.me/](https://agrosmart.me/)  
- **Frontend (Netlify Preview)**: [https://ecoagrosmart.netlify.app/](https://ecoagrosmart.netlify.app/)  

## 🚀 Features

### 🏠 **Smart Dashboard**
- **Admin Dashboard** - Complete farm management system for administrators
- **User Dashboard** - Personal farm management for individual farmers
- **Real-time Analytics** - Live data visualization and insights
- **Responsive Design** - Works seamlessly on desktop, tablet, and mobile

### 🚜 **Farm Management**
- **Multi-Farm Operations** - Create, manage, and monitor multiple farms
- **Field Management** - Organize fields within farms with detailed tracking
- **Crop Planning** - Plan and track crop rotations and growing cycles
- **Resource Optimization** - Intelligent resource usage recommendations

### 📊 **IoT & Sensor Integration**
- **Real-time Sensor Data** - Collect soil moisture, temperature, humidity data
- **Automated Monitoring** - Continuous monitoring of farm conditions
- **Smart Alerts** - Automated notifications for critical events
- **Historical Data Analysis** - Track trends and patterns over time

### 🌤️ **Weather Intelligence**
- **Real-time Weather Data** - Current weather conditions and forecasts
- **Weather-based Recommendations** - Smart farming suggestions based on weather
- **Climate Analytics** - Long-term climate data for better planning
- **Weather Alerts** - Early warning system for weather risks

### 💡 **AI-Powered Insights**
- **Smart Recommendations** - AI-driven farming suggestions
- **Yield Predictions** - Data-driven crop yield forecasting
- **Trend Analysis** - Historical data analysis and future predictions
- **Performance Analytics** - Farm productivity insights

### 🔔 **Advanced Features**
- **Interactive Calendar** - Visual scheduling with color-coded activities
- **Task Management** - Create and track farming tasks with progress indicators
- **Knowledge Badges** - Gamification system for learning achievements
- **Multi-channel Notifications** - Email, SMS, and in-app alerts

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

### **Backend**
- **ASP.NET Core 8** - High-performance web API
- **Entity Framework Core** - ORM for database operations
- **Microsoft SQL Server** - Robust database management
- **JWT Authentication** - Secure token-based authentication
- **RESTful APIs** - Clean API architecture

### **Frontend**
- **React 19.1** - Modern React with latest features
- **Vite 7.0** - Fast build tool and development server
- **Tailwind CSS** - Utility-first CSS framework
- **Framer Motion** - Beautiful animations and micro-interactions
- **React Router** - Client-side routing and navigation

### **UI & Visualization**
- **Lucide React** - Beautiful, customizable icons
- **React Big Calendar** - Interactive calendar component
- **Recharts** - Responsive chart library for data visualization
- **React Toastify** - Elegant notification system
- **SweetAlert2** - Beautiful alert dialogs

### **Communication & APIs**
- **Axios** - HTTP client for API communication
- **EmailJS** - Email service integration
- **Three.js** - 3D graphics and visualization
- **Moment.js** - Date and time manipulation

## 📁 Project Structure

```
AgroSmart/
├── AgroSmartBeackend/       # ASP.NET Core Web API
│   ├── Controllers/         # API Controllers
│   ├── Models/             # Data Models
│   ├── Services/           # Business Logic
│   ├── Data/               # Database Context
│   └── appsettings.json    # Configuration
│
├── AgroSmartFrontend/      # React + Vite Frontend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── Components/     # Reusable Components
│   │   ├── pages/          # Page Components
│   │   ├── services/       # API Services (21 services)
│   │   ├── contexts/       # React Contexts
│   │   ├── hooks/          # Custom Hooks
│   │   └── utils/          # Utility Functions
│   ├── docs/               # Frontend Documentation
│   └── package.json
│
├── Database/               # Database Scripts & Schema
├── Materials/              # Project Documentation & Resources
├── .github/                # GitHub Workflows & Templates
└── README.md
```

## 🚀 Getting Started

### **Prerequisites**
- [.NET 8 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) or later
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v18+ recommended)
- [Microsoft SQL Server](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server)
- Modern web browser

### **Installation**

#### 1. **Clone the Repository**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/mr-baraiya/AgroSmart.git
cd AgroSmart
```

#### 2. **Backend Setup (ASP.NET Core)**
```bash
# Navigate to backend directory
cd AgroSmartBeackend

# Configure database connection in appsettings.json
# Update connection string for your SQL Server

# Run database migrations
dotnet ef database update

# Install dependencies and run
dotnet restore
dotnet run
```

#### 3. **Frontend Setup (React + Vite)**
```bash
# Navigate to frontend directory
cd AgroSmartFrontend

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Configure environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Update VITE_API_BASE_URL=http://localhost:5000/api

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

#### 4. **Database Setup**
- Ensure SQL Server is installed and running
- Create a new database for AgroSmart
- Update connection strings in backend configuration
- Run migrations to create tables

### **Build for Production**

#### Backend
```bash
cd AgroSmartBeackend
dotnet publish -c Release
```

#### Frontend
```bash
cd AgroSmartFrontend
npm run build
npm run preview
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### **Backend Configuration**
```json
{
  "Logging": {
    "LogLevel": {
      "Default": "Information",
      "Microsoft.AspNetCore": "Warning"
    }
  },
  "AllowedHosts": "*",
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "myConnectionString": "YOUR_CONNECTION_STRING_HERE"
  },
  "Jwt": {
    "Key": "YOUR_JWT_KEY",
    "Issuer": "https://localhost:7059",
    "Audience": "*",
    "TokenExpiryMinutes": 60
  },
  "SmtpSettings": {
    "Host": "smtp.gmail.com",
    "Port": "587",
    "Username": "YOUR_EMAIL",
    "Password": "YOUR_PASSWORD",
    "FromEmail": "YOUR_EMAIL"
  }
}
```

### **Frontend Environment Variables**
```env
# Frontend environment variables (Vite)

# API base URL for your backend
VITE_API_BASE_URL=https://your-backend-url.com/api

# Base URL for images served by backend
VITE_IMAGE_BASE_URL=https://your-backend-url.com

# OpenWeatherMap API
VITE_WEATHER_API_KEY=YOUR_OPENWEATHERMAP_API_KEY
VITE_WEATHER_API_BASE_URL=https://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5

# EmailJS configuration
VITE_EMAILJS_USER_ID=YOUR_EMAILJS_USER_ID
VITE_EMAILJS_SERVICE_ID=YOUR_EMAILJS_SERVICE_ID
VITE_EMAILJS_TEMPLATE_ID=YOUR_EMAILJS_TEMPLATE_ID

# AGMARKNET API Configuration for Mandi Prices
# Get your API key from: https://data.gov.in/
VITE_AGMARKNET_API_KEY=YOUR_AGMARKNET_API_KEY

```

## 📊 API Services

The application includes 21 comprehensive API services:

### **User Services (9)**
- User Farm Management
- User Field Management
- User Crop Management
- User Schedule Management
- User Sensor Management
- User Weather Service
- User Smart Insights
- User Sensor Readings
- User Field-wise Crops

### **Admin Services (10)**
- Admin User Management
- Admin Farm Management
- Admin Field Management
- Admin Crop Management
- Admin Schedule Management
- Admin Sensor Management
- Admin Weather Service
- Admin Smart Insights
- Admin Sensor Readings
- Admin Field-wise Crops

### **System Services (2)**
- Authentication Service
- Health Monitoring Service

## 🌟 Key Features in Detail

### **Dashboard Analytics**
- Real-time farm performance metrics
- Interactive charts and visualizations
- Weather integration and forecasts
- Sensor data monitoring
- Task and schedule management

### **Farm Management System**
- Multi-farm organization
- Field mapping and management
- Crop planning and rotation
- Resource allocation optimization
- Performance tracking and analytics

### **Smart Notifications**
- Weather alerts and warnings
- Sensor threshold notifications
- Task and schedule reminders
- System health alerts
- Custom notification preferences

### **Mobile Responsiveness**
- Fully responsive design
- Touch-friendly interface
- Offline capability
- Progressive Web App features

## 📚 Documentation

Comprehensive documentation is available:

- **[Frontend Documentation](AgroSmartFrontend/docs/)** - Complete frontend guide
- **[API Documentation](AgroSmartBeackend/docs/)** - Backend API reference
- **[Database Schema](Database/)** - Database structure and relationships
- **[Deployment Guide](Materials/)** - Production deployment instructions

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 👨‍💻 Author

**Mr. Baraiya** - [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/mr-baraiya)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Built with modern .NET and React technologies
- Designed for farmers and agricultural professionals
- Inspired by the need for smart, data-driven farming solutions
- Thanks to all contributors and the open-source community

## 📞 Support

For support and questions:
- Open an issue on [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/mr-baraiya/AgroSmart/issues)
- Contact: [mr-baraiya](https://github.com/mr-baraiya)

---

**AgroSmart** - Empowering agriculture through technology 🌱
*Smart farming for a sustainable future*
